The President:
Hi, everybody.
Just in time for
the holiday season,
we now have another
piece of good news
about the pace of our
economic recovery.
Last month, our businesses
created 314,000 new jobs.
And that's not a fluke -
it keeps up the solid pace
of job creation we've
seen all year long.
November was the
tenth month in a row
we've added more
than 200,000 jobs.
So far this year, our
economy has created
2.65 million new jobs.
That's the most of any
year since the 1990s -
even with a full
month to go.
All told, our
businesses have created
10.9 million new jobs
over the past 57 months.
And that's the longest
streak of private-sector
job creation on record.
We also know that the
upswing in job growth
this year has come in
industries with higher wages.
Overall wages are
on the rise.
And that's some very
welcome news for millions
of hardworking Americans.
Because even though corporate
profits and the stock market
have hit all-time highs,
the typical family isn't
bringing home more than
they did 15 years ago.
And that still
has to change.
And a vibrant jobs market
gives us the opportunity
to keep up this progress,
and begin to undo
that decades-long
middle-class squeeze.
But first, we need the
outgoing Congress to pass
a budget and keep
our government open.
A Christmas shutdown
is not a good idea.
Then, when the new Congress
convenes in January,
we need to work together
to invest in the things
that support faster growth
in higher-paying jobs.
Building new roads and
bridges creates jobs.
Growing our exports
creates jobs.
Reforming our
outdated tax system
and our broken immigration
system creates jobs.
Raising the minimum wage would
benefit nearly 28 million
American workers, giving
them more money to spend
at local businesses -
and that helps those
businesses create jobs.
America, we still have a
lot of work to do together.
But we do have real, tangible
evidence of our progress.
10.9 million new jobs.
10 million more Americans
with health insurance.
Manufacturing has grown.
Our deficits have shrunk.
Our dependence on
foreign oil is down.
Clean energy is up.
More young Americans are
graduating from high school
and earning college
degrees than ever before.
Over the last four
years, this country has
put more people back to
work than Europe, Japan,
and every advanced
economy combined.
The United States of
America continues
to outperform much
of the world.
And we are going to keep it
up until every American
feels the gains of a
growing economy where
it matters most -
in your own lives.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.